Going to the TriBeCa VR Arcade was interesting as it was a pretty telling window into the momentum VR is having. There are many well-resourced and heavily invested projects that give highly curated, and truly enjoyable  virtual reality experiences. I particularly liked the real-life experiences such as Hard World for Small Things, and My Mother's Wing, which worked as a convincing transposition into a scene, and used VR as a great story-telling tool. **My Mother's Wing is a project by  Gabo Arora, Ari Palitz/Vrse.works. It is documentary-VR set in Gaza, and documenting the aftermath of the 2014 war with Israel, from the eyes of a mother who had just lost her two sons.

The thought that most occupied me at the Virtual Arcade is the reproduciability of the exhibited works. They work well as what they were - exhibited pieces - considering the amount of work and investment that went into them, and the fact that they use a physical setting - a living room, a sea scape, different chairs, barriers, etc. 
Considering -- I think -- that one of the purposes of the exhibit is to push VR into the mainstream and into the home, I wonder how well the exhibit achieved this purpose. It seems that many of the experiences would not be the same if experienced in one's own living space, in addition to the fact that the creation of such content - because it is so difficult to make - would be a barrier to the expansion of a content ecosystem. 

Perhaps animated content would be much easier to create - as our own virtual museum did - which itself has much potential. I do wonder how real-life content, which is what many have in mind when they think about VR, would be able to flourish. We shall see.
