Date of visit: 2/9/18

Ken Perlin is a computer science professor at NYU and an accomplished scholar. He pioneered technologies in computer graphics that became the de-facto standard for games, animations, and simulations.  Ken implemented nascent mathematical techniques to model real world phenomena, like reflections of light rays on surfaces, liquids, and gasses, and implemented computationally. His personal background - being classically educated in music, art, and the sciences - and of his undergraduate studies of Chinese and Physics, reinforce the eclectic career he has had. Ken is also excellent at identifying future-shaping trends, which reflects in his decision in the 80's to pursue computer science in his graduate studies. Most notably, he realized the need for an interdisciplinary approach to computing, and was successful at bridging this technical field with visualization - which is mathematically-heavy, but artistic nonetheless. 

In the lecture, Ken reflected on human patterns of behavior, and in particular the way we interact with our immediate fellows, and with the broader human tribe. He moved on to describe the internet as a democratizing, social tool, and how such a tool becomes so naturalized it is not perceived as a tool anymore; just a part of life. He made the analogy to cinema, which, at its start, was viewed as an emerging technology, but now is recognized as part of culture. He then talked about the various mediums the internet uses, from computers to mobile phones, and claimed that VR is included in such a gadget evolution. He detailed the history (the short one) of VR, and gave his take on how the technology will end up looking.

 One of my main takeaways from Ken's talk was his theory of how devices, and more broadly, new technologies, 'end up looking'. While technology always evolves, humans remain constant. That means that while the manner, aesthetic, ease, or speed of the things we do change, we do them out of patterns of cognition and behavior that have always been the same.

 As a tenet, it is us who will always define new technologies, even when they threaten to erase some of our own humanity. Ken seemed to say that out of our behaviors, perhaps the most paramount is socialization. Computing (and the internet) has liberated much of the way we socialize, but with good examples of smartphones and even VR tools, he argued that they haven't been good enough. He made a great point that glasses are so naturalized that they have become socially invisible, and we are still not at a technological point to make VR the same way. 

I have already mentioned naturalization quite often, and I think it is because Ken seemed to use a notion (maybe not explicitly) of the natural. In many points he seemed to say that we have a natural way of doing things - going to the movies, sitting around the bonfire, going out into a public space to meet the human tribe. I found this a bit problematic when I asked Ken about the privacy implications of our interaction with the internet, and how various privacy infringements are facilitated with tools like VR. His view that our interaction with the tool defines it, leads him to think that if we demand something like privacy, we will shape the technology to allow it. I don't know if I agree here. 

I'll end with a great quote he mentioned: 

"Technology is anything that was invented after you were born"
