It's quite convincing to imagine an empathic reaction induced by a virtual reality experience. To be able to wear a headset that transforms your avatar into a person of different age, gender could be powerful. VR could actually allow people to experience, and perceive, how it is to be someone they could never become in the physical world. If we agree that biases are created because of an inability to know how it feels to be in _somebody else's shoes_ then VR is precisely the technology that would finally enable humans to do so. 

But I don't know if bias (and likewise, its close converse, empathy) are caused because of the lack (or similarly, the ability) to deeply associate with others. From my own background (which might be anecdotal and, ironically, biased) I can say that the to have experienced racism and prejudice does not beget one from not prejudicing others. Israel, where I grew up, came into existance at the wake of the holocaust, an experience that lingered very painfully in the Israeli subconscious, and in my family too. And yet racism in Israel was all around me, and even in members of my own family. So I can't say I was quick to accept the optimism of Bailenson in that regard.

While I do think Bailenson's vision for the psycho-social benefits of VR might have potential, it is also important to remember that just as much as VR can be used to create positive psycho-social effects, it can easily also create negative ones. It is easy, and quite unnecessary to come up with the  gruesome ideas that could be made for VR, because they probably will be made. It is also easy to imagine the same doomsday prophets who will say, just like they have said from the 90's till today, that video games are corrupting our youth and leading to violence. But the lesson of video games, at least in my view (and this is also somewhat of a reiteration of Ken's view about humans ultimate influence of their technology), that the 'wrongful' use of VR will not erode the consciousness of the youths that use it. 

It would be interesting to evaluate Bailenson's VR vision with the effects of the documentary movie. In a similar fashion to the VR idea, the documentary (which has really advanced in the latter half of the 20th century) was a new media form that enabled to increase the proximity of the viewer to other people, places, and ideas. If the documentary has had significant societal effects, then we can be sure that VR will too. But did it?
